Azure dev ops (#4)
NoroffFEU/development-platforms: case-study-azure-devops.md

With Integrated Analytics you can create and share reports and dashboards that visualize data from Azure DevOps in meaningful ways. For example, you can create a dashboard that shows the status of your work items, the number of code changes made in a given time period or the success rate of your pipelines.

To create a report or dashboard you can use the built-in report authoring tools in Azure DevOps, or you can use Power BI, which is a data visualization tool provided by Microsoft. To create a report or dashboard in Power BI, you can connect to the Azure DevOps data source and use the data to create charts, graphs, and other visualizations.

Integrated Analytics in Azure DevOps helps you make data-driven decisions by giving you access to rich data visualizations and insights into your work. With Integrated Analytics, you can monitor the progress of your work and identify areas where improvements can be made.

*Reference [[15](#references)]*

## Strengths

> Azure DevOps have lots of strengths, but it's important to keep in mind that the strengths of the platform may vary depending on the specific needs of an organization and that the strengths of the platform may outweigh these weaknesses for some use cases.

Reviewer: Maybe rewrite the last sentence of this to something like "the strengths of the platform may outweigh the weaknesses for some use cases" Or move this to between the strengths section and the weaknesses, so that it is sort of a end to the strengths and a introductions to weaknesses? Just a suggestion! :)

---
title: Azure DevOps Case Study
keywords: development platforms, Azure DevOps, Microsoft
tags: Development Platforms, Azure DevOps, Microsoft
sidebar: development-platforms
permalink: development-platforms/case-study-azure-devops.html
folder: development-platforms
---

## Table of contents

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Brief History](#brief-history)
3. [Features](#features)
4. [Strengths](#strengths)
5. [Weaknesses](#weaknesses)
6. [Pricing](#pricing)
7. [Comparison](#comparison)
8. [How To](#how-to)
9. [Summary](#summary)
10. [Credits](#credits)
11. [References](#references)

## **Introduction**

> <div style="width: 600px;">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The text is rendered inside a container so this is only needed for previewing

Author: Will fix it. 
Added that for my preview, for me it just didn't look good in the preview

![Azure DevOps offerings](https://miro.medium.com/max/800/1*8orwInnxqPRhrcKf9aOo9Q.png)

> <p style="padding: 0; margin: 0;">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This will apply to most inline html so I may stop suggesting after a while if there are a lot of these. HTML should be used sparingly in markdown for things like iframes that can't otherwise be done.

*Source: google*

> </p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> </div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**Azure DevOps** was initially released in 2018 by Microsoft. It is a set of developer tools, services, and features that enable teams to plan, develop, test, and deliver software more effectively. Azure DevOps integrates with the broader Azure cloud computing platform, enabling users to take advantage of its features and services, such as continuous integration and deployment, and virtual machines. Azure DevOps has since become one of the leading development platforms and is widely used by development teams across the world.

> Azure DevOps is for the most part free to use, however there is some limitations with using only a free tier option. I will go in deeper details about the pricing [here](#pricing)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azure DevOps is for the most part free to use, however there is some limitations with using only a free tier option. We will look in deeper detail about the pricing [here](#pricing)
```

Reviewer 2: In technical literature there is no `I`, only `we`, `you`, and `the author`.

Reviewer 2: My preferred style (personally, this isn't a rule) is to use `we` to make the reader feel like a part of the process.

## **Brief History**

> In 2005 the service that we today refer to as Azure DevOps was named Team Foundation server(TFS). It was released as a set of development tools and services for teams building software applications. After its release in 2005 it has evolved and expanded with new features and services and have quickly become the most popular development platforms for Microsoft-centric teams. TFS has been around for more than a decade, and it has evolved a lot since its inception in 2005. There are professionals in the industry whose entire careers have been dedicated to managing TFS. Such expertise has been necessary because it was quite complicated to administer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 2005 the service that we today refer to as Azure DevOps was named Team Foundation server (TFS). It was released as a set of development tools and services for teams building software applications. After its release in 2005 it has evolved and expanded with new features and services and have quickly become the most popular development platforms for Microsoft-centric teams. TFS has been around for more than a decade, and it has evolved a lot since its inception in 2005. There are professionals in the industry whose entire careers have been dedicated to managing TFS. Such expertise has been necessary because it was quite complicated to administer.
```

Please make sure that (brackets) are followed by a space. You can do this in VS Code with find and replace + regex:

Regex pattern: `\)(?![\s.])`
Replace with: `) `

<img width="530" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10801540/218657710-b99151f1-5032-4c56-929e-4ffeb4a0510e.png">

In 2012, TFS morphed into a tool that helped teams manage their software development projects using Agile. [[1](#references)]

> The name **"Azure DevOps"** came in 2018. Microsoft re-branded TFS to Azure DevOps, this reflecting Microsoft shift to a cloud based service and its focus on providing organizations with a more comprehensive set of tools and services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The name **"Azure DevOps"** came in 2018. Microsoft re-branded TFS to Azure DevOps, this reflecting Microsoft shift to a cloud based service and its focus on providing organizations with a more comprehensive set of tools and services.

```

Reviewer 2: Just an extra new line for readability

After the re-branding Azure DevOps has continued to evolve and add more features, you can read more about the features [here](#features). Azure DevOps has also integrated other Azure services such as Azure functions, Azure Container and Azure Kubernetes service. [[2](#references)]

> ## **Features**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Features
```

The CSS file for the renderer uses heavy bold for headings so this is unnecessary and can be removed.

By using Azure DevOps and Microsoft team you and your team will have a really good way of collaborating and making sure that your project goes according to plan. You can show and adjust your team board in the teams app.

<div style="width: 600px;">

![Price Image](https://www.azuredevopslabs.com/labs/vstsextend/teams/images/kanbanboard_teams_new.png)

<p style="padding: 0; margin: 0;">

*Source: Azure DevOps Labs*

</p>

</div>

*Reference [[10](#references)]*

#### Azure DevOps Wiki

Each project in Azure DevOps supports its own wiki, which enables you to conveniently write pages that help your team members and other users understand, use and contribute to your project.
The wiki pages you create can be edited in your preferred IDE. You only need to clone the Wiki into your IDE and work on it there. It's powered by a git repository.

Normally the developer will have a Markdown file to store documentation alongside the source code in a folder or just directly in the area you are working on. By using the Wiki feature it is possible to store your documentation and it's easy to add to your existing project. Wiki scans the files and make each markdown file into a wiki note.

> Here is a <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Mmyw8rLs11c">Youtube video</a> showcasing the power of Azure DevOps Wiki features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a [Youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/embed/Mmyw8rLs11c) showcasing the power of Azure DevOps Wiki features.
```

Please use markdown style links throughout

With Package Management you can publish packages to an internal or external feed and then consume them in your builds and releases. You can also manage packages from different package sources, such as public feeds like npmjs.com or Maven Central or a private feeds created by your team.

When you publish a package, Azure DevOps stores the package and its metadata in the Package Management feed. You can then share the feed with others in the organization and use it as a source for your builds and releases.

In your builds and releases, you can use the packages from the Package Management feed by specifying the feed in your build or release definition. Azure DevOps will then download the packages and make them available to your build agents or release agents.

Package Management in Azure DevOps helps to centralize your package management and improve collaboration and reuse within the organization. The Package Management ensures that your builds and releases use consistent and up-to-date packages.

*Reference [[12](#references)]*

### Code Review and Feedback

> Azure DevOps offers a code review and feedback system similar to other popular platforms, like GitHub. You create a pull request and on that request you can add team members to look at the code and review it.

Reviewer 2: A little more detail would be nice here, how does this fit with the name DevOps given the content of the lesson on DevOps in Module 3?

Author: Added some more content here.

To create a report or dashboard you can use the built-in report authoring tools in Azure DevOps, or you can use Power BI, which is a data visualization tool provided by Microsoft. To create a report or dashboard in Power BI, you can connect to the Azure DevOps data source and use the data to create charts, graphs, and other visualizations.

Integrated Analytics in Azure DevOps helps you make data-driven decisions by giving you access to rich data visualizations and insights into your work. With Integrated Analytics, you can monitor the progress of your work and identify areas where improvements can be made.

*Reference [[14](#references)]*

## **Strengths**

Azure DevOps have lots of strengths, but it's important to keep in mind that the strengths of the platform may vary depending on the specific needs of an organization and that the strengths of the platform may outweigh these weaknesses for some use cases. 

**Here is some of the strengths of Azure DevOps**

> 1. Its really easy to integrate with the widley used platform GitHub. In fact 2018 Microsoft bought GitHub for $7.5 billion, so the connection between the popular code-repository service used by many developers and large companies and Azure DevOps is really easy to setup and use. The boards that Azure provides have more options to offer and look better then in the project boards that Github provides. So to be able to use the boards that Azure DevOps offer combined with Github repo is great.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Its really easy to integrate with the widley used platform GitHub. In fact 2018 Microsoft bought GitHub for $7.5 billion, so the connection between the popular code-repository service used by many developers and large companies and Azure DevOps is really easy to setup and use. The boards that Azure provides have more options to offer and look better than in the project boards that Github provides. So to be able to use the boards that Azure DevOps offer combined with Github repo is great.
```

Reviewer 2: This is quite subjective, it would be nice to be a bit more objective. "Looks better" and "is great" are not technical assessments

### **Support**

There is an option for premium support from Azure DevOps.
The cost of premium support for Azure DevOps varies based on a number of factors, including the level of support required, the number of users and the level of service desired.

Microsoft does not publicly disclose the exact cost of its premium support plans for Azure DevOps, as pricing is customized for each organization based on its specific needs and requirements. To obtain an accurate estimate of the cost of premium support for Azure DevOps, organizations should contact Microsoft directly to discuss their specific needs and requirements.

It is worth noting that while premium support may have a higher upfront cost than the basic support, it can provide organizations with a number of benefits, including faster response times, dedicated support engineers, access to a wider range of support resources and expertise, which can help to minimize downtime and ensure that any issues are resolved quickly and effectively.

## **Comparison**

While Azure DevOps is one of the leading platforms out on the marked, there are more options for the developers to use. Here is some alternative to Azure DevOps.

> <table style="width:100%;">

Reviewer 2: https://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables#

Please format this as a markdown table

Reviewer 2: You should not style the table, format styling is the responsibility of the app that renders the markdown

Author: Is this a must to have it as a MD table? I personally don't like how it looks when writing it, its a bit confusing to use.

Reviewer 2: It's hard to use which is why I prefer a tool - but yes, you do need to use it. Markdown is built on a principle of simplicity, while this sometimes comes at the cost of usability for the author - it is the reason we selected it for use.

            </li>
        </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr style="background-color: #3E3E3E; color: white;">
    <td>GitLab</td>
    <td>Free for public repositories and starts at $4 per user/month for private repositories.</td>
    <td>GitLab provides source control, continuous integration and deployment, security, and project management. It also offers issue tracking, wikis, and dashboards.</td>
    <td>Good for DevOps and continuous delivery. Offers a comprehensive solution for software development. Strong focus on security and compliance.</td>
    <td>User interface can be complicated for some. Not as widely used or supported as other platforms.</td>
    <td>
        <ul style="list-style: none; padding: 0; color: black;">
            <li>
                <a href="https://about.gitlab.com/" style="color: #ffffff; text-decoration: underline #ffffff;">GitLab</a>
            </li>
            <li>
                <a href="https://sourceforge.net/software/product/GitLab/" style="color: #ffffff; text-decoration: underline #ffffff;">Sourceforge</a>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    </tr>
</table>

> To create comparison between the software above i have used [this website](https://sourceforge.net/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[This website](https://sourceforge.net/) was used to create the comparison table above.
```

> ## **How to**

Reviewer 2: Not finished this section yet?

Author: Not yet. It will come a video here on how to create a account, add board etc. 
Not sure how much text is needed here to showcase how to use it as the CA says.
